---
source_url: "https://formik.org/docs/api/formik"
retrieved_at: "2025-06-20T21:32:43Z"
mcp_server: "exa"
---
` ` is a component that helps you with building forms. It uses a render
props pattern made popular by libraries like React Motion and React Router.

## Example

```
 importReactfrom'react'; import{Formik}from'formik'; constBasicExample=()=>( My Form { setTimeout(()=>{ alert(JSON.stringify(values,null,2)); actions.setSubmitting(false); },1000); }} > {props=>( {props.errors.name&& {props.errors.name}} Submit )} );
```

#### Props

* * *

## Reference

## Props

### Formik render methods and props

There are 2 ways to render things with ` `

- ` `
- ` `
- Deprecated in 2.x

Each render methods will be passed the same props:

#### `dirty: boolean`

Returns `true` if values are not deeply equal from initial values, `false` otherwise.
`dirty` is a readonly computed property and should not be mutated directly.

#### `errors: { [field: string]: string }`

Form validation errors. Should match the shape of your form's `values` defined
in `initialValues`. If you are using `validationSchema` (which you should be),
keys and shape will match your schema exactly. Internally, Formik transforms raw
[Yup validation errors](https://github.com/jquense/yup#validationerrorerrors-string--arraystring-value-any-path-string)
on your behalf. If you are using `validate`, then that function will determine
the `errors` objects shape.

#### `handleBlur: (e: any) => void`

`onBlur` event handler. Useful for when you need to track whether an input has
been `touched` or not. This should be passed to ` `

#### `handleChange: (e: React.ChangeEvent) => void`

General input change event handler. This will update the `values[key]` where
`key` is the event-emitting input's `name` attribute. If the `name` attribute is
not present, `handleChange` will look for an input's `id` attribute. Note:
"input" here means all HTML inputs.

#### `handleReset: () => void`

Reset handler. Will reset the form to its initial state. This should be passed
to `... `

#### `handleSubmit: (e: React.FormEvent) => void`

Submit handler. This should be passed to `... `. To learn more about the submission process, see [Form Submission](https://formik.org/docs/guides/form-submission).

#### `isSubmitting: boolean`

Submitting state of the form. Returns `true` if submission is in progress and `false` otherwise. IMPORTANT: Formik will set this to `true` as soon as submission is _attempted_. To learn more about the submission process, see [Form Submission](https://formik.org/docs/guides/form-submission).

#### `isValid: boolean`

Returns `true` if there are no `errors` (i.e. the `errors` object is empty) and `false` otherwise.

> Note: `isInitialValid` was deprecated in 2.x. However, for backwards compatibility, if the `isInitialValid` prop is specified, `isValid` will return `true` if the there are no `errors`, or the result of `isInitialValid` of the form if it is in "pristine" condition (i.e. not `dirty`).

#### `isValidating: boolean`

Returns `true` if Formik is running validation during submission, or by calli