---
source_url: "https://tanstack.com/table/v8/docs/guide/data"
retrieved_at: "2025-06-20T21:53:34Z"
mcp_server: "exa"
---
[**Data Guide**](http://tanstack.com/tanstack.com#data-guide)

Tables start with your data. Your column definitions and rows will depend on the shape of your data. TanStack Table has some TypeScript features that will help you create the rest of your table code with a great type-safe experience. If you set up your data and types correctly, TanStack Table will be able to infer the shape of your data and enforce that your column definitions are made correctly.

[**TypeScript**](http://tanstack.com/tanstack.com#typescript)

TypeScript is NOT required to use the TanStack Table packages... _**BUT**_ TanStack Table is written and organized in such a way that makes the awesome TypeScript experience that you get feel like it is one of the main selling points of the library. If you are not using TypeScript, you will be missing out on a lot of great autocompletion and type-checking features that will both speed up your development time and reduce the number of bugs in your code.

[**TypeScript Generics**](http://tanstack.com/tanstack.com#typescript-generics)

Having a basic understanding of what TypeScript Generics are and how they work will help you understand this guide better, but it should be easy enough to pick up as you go. The official [TypeScript Generics Docs](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/generics.html) may be helpful for those not yet familiar with TypeScript.

[**Defining Data Types**](http://tanstack.com/tanstack.com#defining-data-types)

data is an array of objects that will be turned into the rows of your table. Each object in the array represents a row of data (under normal circumstances). If you are using TypeScript, we usually define a type for the shape of our data. This type is used as a generic type for all of the other table, column, row, and cell instances. This Generic is usually referred to as TData throughout the rest of the TanStack Table types and APIs.

For example, if we have a table that displays a list of users in an array like this:

```
[
 {
 "firstName": "Tanner",
 "lastName": "Linsley",
 "age": 33,
 "visits": 100,
 "progress": 50,
 "status": "Married"
 },
 {
 "firstName": "Kevin",
 "lastName": "Vandy",
 "age": 27,
 "visits": 200,
 "progress": 100,
 "status": "Single"
 }
]

```

```
[
 {
 "firstName": "Tanner",
 "lastName": "Linsley",
 "age": 33,
 "visits": 100,
 "progress": 50,
 "status": "Married"
 },
 {
 "firstName": "Kevin",
 "lastName": "Vandy",
 "age": 27,
 "visits": 200,
 "progress": 100,
 "status": "Single"
 }
]

```

Then we can define a User (TData) type like this:

```
//TData
type User = {
 firstName: string
 lastName: string
 age: number
 visits: number
 status: string
 progress: number
}

```

```
//TData
type User = {
 firstName: string
 lastName: string
 age: number
 visits: number
 status: string
 progress: number
}

```

We can then define our data array with this type, and then TanStack Table will be able to intelligently infer lots of types for us later on in our columns, rows, cells,